Welcome to The Astrobook
========================

**The Astrobook** is an open-source book on astronomy, focused on celestial and
orbital mechanics. Because its digital nature, it is possible to serve it
online, making it accessible to readers all over the world.

All materials presented within this page and those others hosted in [official
source code repository](https://github.com/astrobook/astrobook) are subjected to
a custom [project
license](https://github.com/astrobook/astrobook/blob/master/LICENSE). Although
it enables you to freely use all project contents, limitations are imposed
regarding their original author and final use. Please, take your time to read
carefully all terms and check if they match with your purposes.

Finally, if you find any kind of error or would like to improve the book by
adding more content or information, please refer to the [contributing
guide](https://github.com/astrobook/astrobook/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING). This
file will guide you in the process through which you can help to the project
either adding new features or solving different issues.


Purpose of this book
--------------------

The main objective of **The Astrobook** is to be an open-source reference book
for both celestial and orbital mechanics. All of its content is completely fully
reproducible, so anyone can get an exact copy of the latest available version.

It tries to cover all possible topics within previously cited study fields.
Reputable source materials and corresponding references citations are used every
time a new topic is developed. By providing interactive images together with
practical examples all of them supported by deep theoretical explanations,
reader is expected to have a learning process more enjoyable than the one
provided just by plain texts books.

Finally, this book is also a tribute to all those people and pioneers in the
field and their contributions to the astronomy science and all its branches.


Why an online book?
-------------------

Technical and academical books are usually expensive from the point of view of
students. At some point, they might become outdated, forcing readers to buy new
editions or just avoiding to use old versions. Some of these volumes can have
hundreds of pages, which increase their weight, making it annoying to carry the
books anywhere you go. By having an online book you can get rid of all the
problems presented in the lines before: it is easy to update and cheap to
maintain, easy to carry and accessible anywhere where an Ethernet connection
exists.

Furthermore, because of being an open-source project, anyone can extend its
content by adding new features, explanations or even fixing errors and bugs. The
bigger the community, the greater the project will be!


About its structure
-------------------

Two main parts can be differentiated in this book: **astronomy basics** and
**orbital mechanics**. Almost all text work about orbital mechanics is just focused
on this branch of astronomy and does not cover anything related to its mother
science. Some astronomy concepts are required if a deep study on particular
orbital mechanics topic is needed. For this reason, an introduction to astronomy
science and some important topics is provided as the first part of the book.

On the other hand, the orbital mechanics part provides reader with complete
explanations on the field. Those explanations ship together with computer
methods for solving complex presented problems, making the study of the subject
more practical and modern. This part might be understood as the core of the
book.


Before reading
--------------

This project is still under development and thus, some of its structure and
contents might be modified or updated till a stable version is released. When
using materials provided in this text or any other, **check those against other
reputable information sources**, as non-intentional errors might have been
introduced. Enjoy your reading and report any kind of issue in the [official
issues collection](https://github.com/astrobook/astrobook/issues). Enjoy your
reading!
